[MUSIC]
In this video we are gonna be clicking and
spawning out defenders wherever we have
clicked in the war which is pretty cool.
And we are gonna be talking
in detail about return types.
And about passing in information and
about creating arguments within methods.
So it's gonna be pretty deep
from that point of view, but
lots of awesome learning, so
let's jump in and get started.
Okay, let's continue our journey
of placing our defender.
In this video we're gonna place
the defender on a specific position
within the world.
So back over into defender spawner script,
what we need to do in here is create
ourselves this mechanism for
saying where did I click.
So I will below on mouse-down
in between our mouse-down and
Spawn Defender I'm gonna make a new method
which I will have as a private Vector2,
which I want to return.
When something calls this method,
we want to be returning a Vector2 value.
We'll call this GetSquareClicked.
Within GetSquareClicked,
we'll start off by making Vector2,
which we'll call clickPause or
clickPosition and
that will be a new Vector2, so
we construct it as a Vector2.
This will be Input.mousePosition.x, and
then to get y coordinate, what will it be?
You've got it, Input.mousePosition.y;.
Good start.
Next, after we've got our
position within the world,
we need to convert that
to a grid coordinate.
So to take it from just the role position
on the screen to what we want within
the world spacing, cuz we know this is
one, one and up here is seven, five.
So to do that, we'll used,
something that we've used before in this
course which is a screen to world point.
So Vector2, this will be worldPosition or
worldPos = Camera.main.ScreenToWorldPoint.
And then what's the reference
we're taking here?
What's the point we want?
Well, we want the clickPosition, so that's
why I've created this variable, clickPos.
So we're saying, wherever clickPos is,
which is our x and
y coordinates of our mouse.
We want to convert that
into ScreenToWorldPoint.
And now, because we're getting
our red squiggly line,
it's saying because you wanted
me to return a Vector2 but
I don't see anywhere in here
that's saying return to Vector2.
So nice and simply we'll say return.
What are we returning in here?
We're returning the worldPosition,
so worldpos;.
Okay, that should make it nice and
happy now that whenever we
call GetSquaredClicked(),
we are returning worldPos.
Now, how are we gonna use this?
Well, this is where I've got
a little challenge for you.
This challenge is a little bit more
like a riddle, and this is great for
those of you who play a lot of
video games and like puzzles.
So where do we need to use worldPos so
that we can spawn our defenders
at the place that we've clicked?
Well, I'd like for
you to create an argument in
SpawnDefender() that receives coordinates.
So, this is SpawnDefender() and we need
to be receiving coordinates in here.
You need to specify and then, to use those
coordinates when spawning the defender.
So where is it that we would
use those coordinates?
Why do we need to say,
this is where you spawn?
And then also to make sure you have
a place where you get the coordinate by
calling GetSquareClicked() somewhere,
this is the puzzle bit.
I'm saying, somewhere in our code,
we need to be calling GetSquareClicked().
So it's a little bit of a tricky one,
it's a little bit more of a puzzle but
it's only gonna be a tiny amount of code.
It's just figuring out where to put things
so the right things are calling and
returning and using the right things.
So there's your challenge,
take that on and
I'll see you back here when
you've given that your best shot.
Okay, I'm gonna start at
the end of the chain here.
I'm gonna say right at the very end we
want something to be spawned not in
transform.position, but
in our worldPosition.
And to do that we're saying we need within
our SpawnDefender here, we need to,
whoever has called this,
it's their responsibility to tell us
where is it that we need to place this?
Where was clicked?
So we'll create a Vector2
worldPos requirement, or
an argument that needs to be parse in
when anything calls SpawnDefender,
you need to tell me where in
the world I should be spawning.
Now, where is currently
calling SpawnDefender?
It's up here.
So SpawnDefender, when we call it,
we need to be saying, okay,
this is where you should click.
But how do we know where you should click?
Well, it's contain within here, we now
GetSquareClicked, we want this worldPos.
And the way we get that, because we
have this return type of Vector2,
we know that anything that calls,
GetSquareClicked,
is going to be returning
the information of worldPos.
So we can have it in here.
And that will be parse into our
worldPos when SpawnDefender is called.
So, just let me type this so
it's super clear.
So we're calling a method within a method,
it's a little bit inception.
GetSquaredClicked() in parenthesis.
So SpawnDefender is calling, so
when we call SpawnDefender we're
also calling GetSquareClicked().
GetSquareClicked() is parsing back,
it's returning, sorry,
it's returning the information of
world Pos in the SpawnDefender.
And then that is passing in the
information of the Vector2 worldPos, so
we can be using that spawn defender.
Hopefully that all makes sense.
I know it's a little bit tricky.
And I know I have explained a few
different times, in a few different ways,
and hopefully it does click for you.
Before we put ourselves on
the back two aggressively.
Let's go and click on Play and
make sure this all works.
I'm sure there's ones that we've
forgotten in here somewhere.
So when I click around, beautiful.
I didn't forget any steps.
So now, we have our DefenderSpawning
exactly where we click it,
not out of the play space, only within
the play space, exactly as we want.
Although not exactly as we want, because
we want them to be spawning just in
the middle of the square and
not all over the place.
And that will be the subject of the next
video, where we spawn our cactus or
spawn our defenders in the right
place within the grid.
So great work, well done.
And I'll see you in the next video.